# Tenerife
Data and analysis script (MatLab) for a university project linking geodiversity to endemic vascular plant diversity

Our methodology consisted of a fieldwork and a GIS part, followed by a statistical data analysis. 
During GIS work, prior to fieldwork, we prepared data layers of thematic data available (soil map, geological map), and chose our fieldwork locations to ensure a good cover of the geological and topographical variability in our specific area. We derived land surface parameters from a DTM. Land surface parameters are terrain model derivatives such as slope, curvature, and additional measures such as openness of the topography. 

During out fieldwork, our aim was to map species diversity as well as biotope diversity. Mapping biotopes in the field is nearly impossible even with expert knowledge of local plants. Therefor we adopted a stratified sampling strategy, which we calling mapping of geo-vegetation units.  Geomorphological units were delineated in the field, and subdivided into geomorphological subunits, or topographical subunits until patches with a uniform vegetation cover were obtained. This we used as a substitute for biotope mapping. In each geovegetation unit a fieldform was filled in with a characterization of abiotic conditions and a species count of endemic plant species only. Initially photographs were used to store the species that could not be identified immediately, these were later identified with the help of an expert.

Afterwards,  our map containing rasters of LSP data and thematic polygon maps with GVUs, geological units and species counts per GVU were gridded by overlaying our fieldwork plots with a fishnet of 200x200m cells in ArcMap. Each fishnet polygon got several attributes calculated from the GD-index input data, and a species and biotope count (GVU count), mean value elevation, standard dev elevation. Main geological unit, number of geological units. 

As mentioned earlier, we used a stratified approach, identifying main geomorphological units in the field, and subdividing them I into geomorphological subunits. For instance, a barranco can consist of a barranco floor, a barranco slope and several terraces, each with distinct vegetation. Moreover, additional subdivisions may be made based on activity of a slope (active part/nonactive part), topographical aspect, etc. For instance, a lava plateau was identified that had consistent species composition all over the unit, and a Barranco with several distinct biotopes. The barranco was subdivided into a barranco floor, and  barranco slopes and further divided based on aspect until consistent GVU were obtained.

Our methodology of selecting several field plots has to be upscaled of course. We propose that the upscaling is set up in a stratified and hierarchical way. By selecting three plots in our greater area, we could upscale our methods to our greater area, which was step 1. And we propose that first, several additional plots are selected in the Corona Forestal first, with different altitudes, aspects, geology, etc, so that our methodology can first be upscaled to the entire corona forestall. Then, other vegetation zones of Tenerife can be analyzed in a similar way and finally the methodology can be upscaled to the whole of Tenerife, and perhaps even other Canary Islands. 
